 Case number 22-205, CD of Lincoln doing business as Lincoln Electric System petitioner for Suspedral Energy Regulatory Commission. Ms. Roby for the petitioner, Mr. Kennedy for the response, Mr. Genda for the intervener. Is it Ms. Roby or Roby? Roby, thank you very much. Good morning. Good morning. Can you hear me okay? I can. Okay. Well now. Roby changed in a minute. My family tells me I speak very loud so I think we'll be okay. I do have an issue with my side. May please the court. Deborah Roby for petitioner Lincoln Electric. I'd like to reserve two minutes for rebuttal please. For ex-orders denying Lincoln Electric's recovery of its revenue requirement or transmission facilities located in zone 19, the Southwest Power Pools transmission pricing zone 19. Arbitrate capricious or not reflective of reason decision making and are contrary to law. This is so because the findings are contrary to the record evidence or are otherwise unsupported by record evidence. They also depart from long standing, long established for precedent. First, the orders depart from the principles of zone rate design under a license plate structure. Herc is repeatedly held that it is just unreasonable to allocate transmission costs to the zone in which the facilities are located. In fact, there's such as physical integration with existing zone facilities are indicative of appropriate zone placement and cost recovery. Heather Perk also had a lot of precedent that beyond physical location, the cost causation can be for those customers in that particular who are being served. You are articulating the cost causation and beneficiary pays principles. That is absolutely true, but the beneficiary pays principles in the context of a zone rate design find that physical location matters. Those in proximity to the facilities are deemed to benefit from those facilities. What matters is that is the facility an integrated component of the facilities that support load within that zone. That is the zone rate context. I'm going to focus on location. Tell me about what you mean by benefit because if it's serving a different zone, you can have a physical location one place, but it's serving customers elsewhere, right? Well, in the context of an RTO, there is the concept of network integrated transmission service. That concept, as Western noted in its brief and as we note in our brief, the concept then goes from instead of, there's a concept that operates more like a reservoir than a railroad. Power is injected throughout the region at various points throughout the region and it is withdrawn throughout the region. Users within the RTO have the benefit of using the entirety of the facilities, but in a zone rate construct, you pay for the facilities that are located in the zone in which load is located, the delivery point. You don't pay for the facilities where you source that generation. That is the nature of the zone rate construct. Here what FERC did was evaluate, they essentially created a fiction. There's no question that the facilities are located in zone 19. There is no question that they are part of the Southwest Power Pools network service. This happened in 2015 when the Southwest Power Pools expanded to include these and other facilities of the integrated system parties. This was the creation of zone 19 in 2015. And once that happened, that zone replacement decision for these facilities was made. And the question is, why don't you all move to change the rate formula template in 2015? In 2015, well, it's not unusual for owners, joint owners of facilities to modify their formula rates or to seek rate recovery at different times. There's nothing unusual about that. There's no requirement that you do so at the same time. There's testimony from Lincoln Electric. Lincoln Electric is a relatively small system compared to the larger systems of the RTO. And it got to it when it could dedicate the resources necessary to prepare the modifications to its formula rate to effectuate that decision to place the facilities in zone 19. There's no bar, no time limitation for doing so. Are you doubting that they are a legacy facility? They are not legacy facilities in the context of Lincoln Electric system. This is what FERC relies on in opinion 494 in reaching its conclusion. But the legacy facilities, it matters what legacy facility means there. Opinion 494 address the larger question of rate design within the PJMRTO and the question of whether to depart from the zone of rate design and go to a single post-it stamp rate. That's not, there's not a question of rate design here. And instead, the commission said that the legacy facilities are essentially the service territory of the utilities that make up the geographic territories of those zones. Here, these facilities are not part of Lincoln Electric system. Lincoln Electric system is located 300 miles away in Southeast Nebraska and essentially are comprised of the facilities around the Metro Lincoln, Nebraska area. These facilities had issue here. And remember, we're talking about an undivided ownership interest in facilities that are located in Eastern Wyoming and West Nebraska. They are not built to support load in the Lincoln Nebraska area. They are integrated components of the system that is the backbone of the network that comprise the facilities of the integrated system parties. And that includes base and electric. They were built as part of base on electric system. There's no question that the facilities are already part of the Southwest Powerful system. Lincoln Electric did not propose to include any new facilities as part of its proposal. It did not include, did not ask to expand the system in any way. It sought simply to implement a prior decision that recognized that the facilities are located in zone 19 and cost recovery should follow that decision. There was no new request for a zone replacement decision. What happens when physical location and then cost causation conflict? I don't believe there is a conflict. Okay. I'm asking in that scenario. Sure. Like you have physical location somewhere else and it's serving customers elsewhere. You got some precedents suggesting that the customer should pay their portion of the load even though the facilities are somewhere else and you are arguing that there is a physical location different. But those two concepts can conflict sometimes. So how do we then rectify that? I don't think they would do respect. I don't think they conflict because there is a series of decisions that are made. The first decision is where are the facilities located? Because the commission is held in the Rochester decision, transmission facilities are not ethereal concepts. They are fixtures that are placed in the ground. They do not move from location to location. So we start with a physical location of the facilities and the benefits that accrue to those in proximity of those facilities include such benefits that aren't quantifiable such as reliability and increased pathways to move power. But in a zone rate construct, which is what is relevant here, the facilities that are located in the zone are deemed to benefit the load that's in that zone and all load in the zone are deemed to benefit from all facilities in the zone. It does not matter if a facility was constructed in the far northeast corner of the zone and another facility is constructed in the far southwest corner of the zone. They're built for different purposes, but all load is deemed to benefit from those facilities because of the geographic nature of the zones and the zone rate constructed within the RTL. What matters here is the use. The use has changed. For attempts to draw distinction here and relies solely on the original intent. I've gone into my rebuttal time here, but the concept here is, work fails to recognize the changed use here. And what matters is when the facilities come into the RTL, is service provided, pursued to the RTL's rules and the answer here is an unequivocal yes. There's no special treatment being sought here. In Lincoln's use, no longer relies on a specific path. It relies on network integrated transmission service, which is the benefit that it received as being a member of the RTL. All right. Thank you. Mr. Kennedy? Good morning, Your Honours. Robert Kennedy on behalf of the commission. In this case, the commission recently found that Lincoln Electric's proposal to have zone 19 customers pay for their investment in the LRME river facilities. They had not established that it was just in reasonable. That decision was consistent with state of the record before the agency and commission and judicial precedent. In paragraph 38 of opinion 4.998, which is discussed throughout the briefs and the underlying orders, the commission explained that when it comes to legacy facilities and cost allocation, it's going to examine cost allocations proposals to make sure they are allocated to first those who caused the cost to be incurred and second other beneficiaries. It followed that approach here. With respect to who caused the cost to be incurred, I thought we had pinned down that this had been purchased by Lincoln. This interest in the facilities had been purchased by Lincoln Electric to serve their load in zone 16. I thought I heard a little bit of equivocation today. These are, in fact, legacy facilities. The commission recently concluded that based on Lincoln Electric's response to the efficiency letter in particular section of page 538, where it said it purchased the share in the facilities to serve its load, which is in zone 16. Seven circus decision in Illinois Commerce said it's reasonable to allocate the cost of the legacy facilities to those customers who were the reason for the purchase, makes economic sense, and the utility who made this investment had no expectation of recovery from anyone other than its customers for whom it purchased. Then the commission went on and examined whether there is evidence in the record that zone 19 customers benefit from this. Before getting into this, I just want to step back and set the procedural posture here. This is a filing under section 205 of the Federal Power Act by Lincoln Electric. Under section 824DE, it is Lincoln Electric's burden to establish that it's just in reason. The commission went through each of the justifications put forward by Lincoln Electric. Guest of wine, excuse me, the zone 19 customer should pay. The first, and this is the only justification in their initial filing. This is, they supported it with a declaration from one of their managers, Mr. Florm. It's page 245 of the J.A. What he said is, zone 19 customers should pay because they're using our interest in these facilities and are finally just sort of truce up the rate to existing practice. The commission recently found it dug into that question and it found, again, Lincoln Electric's own statement, state of some S.P.P. That in fact, Lincoln's electric share in this facility had not been turned over to S.P. P.S. control. The customers had not yet been using it. That was contingent on the commission accepting this proposal. Then the second justification was, wealth commission, your precedent says physical location governance. The commission walked through and explained, in their regard, I would point the court to the city of Nixon case, which Lincoln Electric submitted in a 28J letter. In paragraph 10 of that order, the commission said, again, when it comes to cost allocation, it's a case by case analysis that looks to see whether the cost imposed upon the party are recently commensurate with the benefits. And the commission walked through the various cases that Lincoln Electric pointed to and said, look, in some of them, there's record evidence that the customers who you want to charge are going to benefit. In alleging, there was record evidence that had this particular facility not been built by Party A, the local utility would have had to build it itself. In the city of Nixon, we heard discussion of integration benefits and things of that nature. And certainly it's true that facilities can benefit those around it. That's obvious, but there has to be evidence in the record that shows something that allows the commission to weigh the costs and the benefits. In the city of Nixon, there was testimony, not just a statement that they're integrated, there was testimony establishing why that mattered. It allowed for more efficient planning. The integration allowed for the local utilities to avoid reliability problems. There was testimony that it opened up additional pass to generation. All of that's lacking. And again, this sort of gets us back to where we started with the Seven Circus opinion in Illinois Commerce. The first half was about legacy facilities and the commission's decision here sort of follows that. And then in half, the Seven Circus faulted the commission for doing just what Lincoln Electro's doing here, just invoking general statements that these are backbone facilities that they have integration benefits without putting any sort of meat on the bone that will allow some sort of now. As I understand it, the opposing council is arguing is they're changed circumstances. So even if the legacy notion and location notion of viable, the circumstances, her argument is a circumstance of change, you seem to say the commission said that's not right. I'm looking at what they said. We acknowledge Lincoln Electro's representations that it's use of its share in the LRS facilities has changed over time. And that Lincoln Electric currently relies exclusively on network service to deliver the LRS facilities out to Lincoln Electro. So is it incredible? Isn't what she said? Incredible. The circumstances are not what they were initially. I think the commission did acknowledge that they're taking network service. The commission also found that currently there is evidence in the record indicating that zone 16 customers are still the beneficiaries of their share. A, it has not been turned over to FEP. So we know zone 19 customers are not benefiting from it. Lincoln Electric is recovering under its investment in this facility under its retail rates from zone 16 customers, which suggests they're still benefiting. And third, Lincoln Electric has a, what we call a grandfather transmission agreement, pre-existing agreement that's brought in and they are able to take service under the, it still exists notwithstanding the global tariff. And Lincoln Electric acknowledges page 651 of the GA that allows them to avoid certain congestion charges, which also will benefit their load in zone 16. But yes, certainly circumstances that just change, but there must be some showing that those change circumstances warrant imposing these costs on zone 19 customers. The evidence is the commission found in paragraph 37 of the initial order that there's no need for this capacity in zone 19 right now that those particular facilities are already the two pieces that have been turned over to FEP. There's already excess capacity in standing alone. Lincoln Electric's would only add to that surplus and there's no record evidence showing how that would benefit zone 19. And remember, they turning this over to FEP allowed it to, and excess capacity to be sold. That doesn't mean that Lincoln Electric just gets some money when the excess transmission is used. It would mean the way this work rate design works. If it placed in zone 19, those zone 19 customers would have to reimburse Lincoln Electric for their investment, whether it's used or not. And yes, there is a zone rate design that's premised on the notion that facilities work together and provide zone benefits. But before a facility is placed in a zone, there has to be a demonstration, record evidence that it benefits the parties who are being asked to pay for it. And that's what's lacking. All right. Thank you, honours. Thank you. Mr. John Duh. Thank you, Your Honor. May I please look forward to John Janda for the Western Area Power Administration. I'm happy to address any questions that the court might have, but otherwise I'd just like to make three brief points. First is, I think it can be a little bit easy to get lost in the technical complexity underlying this case. But adds core. What's happening here is I think quite simple. Lincoln Electric in 1977 made a decision to invest in these facilities to benefit Lincoln's customers in Lincoln, who are now in zone 16. And for decades, Lincoln used the facilities to deliver benefits to those customers, use them basically as a railroad to return to that metaphor to deliver power from these generating facilities to their customers in Lincoln, Nebraska. And now that Lincoln has joined the pool, the facilities joined the pool, Lincoln has apparently decided it doesn't want to or need to use them in that way anymore. I would like to continue paying for them. But Western Area Power Administration, the other zone 19 customers had nothing to do with Lincoln's decision to incur those costs originally, but are not benefiting from the facilities today, have no use of the facilities today. And I think for looking at that record made the very reasonable determination that it would not be fair or not to put with the position principle to allow Lincoln to voice those costs on to zone 19 customers, when they're not using facilities, ban thing from the facilities and then nothing to do with the decision originally to invest in the facilities and incur those costs. Second is to the extent that Lincoln is suggesting that there's something special about the physical location of the facilities that should dictate the outcome here. I do think it's important to recognize that that bridge has sailed the tri-state investment in the exact same facilities has been allocated to zone 17 for talks about this and brief in first brief. So the 17 is where tri-state service customers, it's where the for beneficiaries of tri-states investment in these same facilities has been allocated, the state circuit approved that allocation in the MPP case that say it throughout the briefs. And so I don't think there's anything sort of special or magical, historically or in the commissions or this court's precedent about physical location that would override the question of who actually has been benefiting from these facilities for the last 45 years. I think if except there's any questions in the court's mind, it is important to remember the sort of doubly differential standard of review here. Lincoln or the burden originally of proving that this proposed change was just unreasonable, for rejected that. And Lincoln now bears the burden in this court of showing that for decision not just as wrong, but is arbitrary and capricious under a very differential standard of review. Using the context of very complicated and technical questions about electricity management and so to go back to your question judge child, you know, even if there might be different strands of precedent pointing in different directions in this case, I think work went through all of the precedence cited in really an admirable way and determined that in the particular context of this case on this specific record that the for just and reasonable thing to do is not to allocate all of the costs, some costs of these facilities to the state. So even if again, there might be some precedence or principles that might point in the opposite direction at the end of the day, I think first weighing about evidence and ultimate conclusion, it isn't titled to substantial difference from the sport in this question. I do have a question and that is I wasn't familiar with these federal utilities and how many are there in the country is TVA one of them or is that. Well, I'm not sure exactly how many there are I think TVA is one the biovill power administration is one but the Western area power administration is one and they as a general matter sell market and sell, I would generate hydroelectric power from revolved the dams and power structures that you can think of. You're basically a competitor. I'm not sure that we compete on a utility front with Lincoln, for example, because I'm not sure that Western area power administration actually serves customers in Lincoln. But we sell power to mostly it and I think to statutorily designated preference customers Indian tribes state and federal agencies use of how these quadrued those. Thank you. Let's see Mr. Mr. Roby, why don't you take two minutes. Thank you very much. I'd like to address a few items here first is it's important to understand that what Lincoln proposed was not a different zone placement decision and one that had already been made when facilities are placed it happens once it doesn't happen every time a joint owner comes in the tri state decision didn't involve his own placement of Lincoln of facilities themselves that was an election by tri state to depart from what had already occurred in 2015. There's nothing in the tariff that prevented tri state from seeking a different cost recovery from what for get already proved when those facilities were placed in the first instance. But Lincoln Electric is not making an election to depart from that decision that was made in 2016, 2015, which is why its proposal was about the mechanism for recovery. What FERC did, it FERC never got to the mechanism for recovery. Instead, we're going to evaluate Lincoln's share as though it is a separate facility that must be evaluated brand new as though it's new to the system. And that is a fiction. It is simply not true. It's not what happened. The second thing is, with respect to the degrees of physical connection in the city of NICSEL, the city of NICSEL decision again is a zonal placement decision. And there is an evaluation of the benefits to determine who benefits from the physical facilities. That again is one of those decisions that happens at the time the facilities come into the RTU. These facilities are not new. The facility is already part of the Southwest Powerful RTL. And the Southwest Powerful has said, as far as excess capacity, the commission has never made a determination as far as I'm aware that whether or not you may recover from a particular zone depends on how much capacity is available in that line. The commission doesn't separate out capacity and treat it as though it's a separate facility. This is a nature of multi-owner transmission pricing zones as well. The zone 19 started with the initial integrated system parties. I think three or four parties. There are now 20 transmission owners that are listed in zone 19. Each one of them constructed facilities for the benefit use of their own systems. But now everybody in the zone is paying for those. If the original intent theory were central to this evaluation, there could not be 20 transmission owners all sharing and the costs that exist now in zone 19. There could be no multi-owner transmission pricing zones. The focus on the original intent to the exclusion of all other relevant factors is where FERC aired here. And that cannot be upheld. It would destroy the very nature of the zone array construct. You couldn't have multi-owner transmission pricing zones. Thank you very much. Thank you.